##### Version 2.2 -- 2018-02-12 #

## Goal in Game
  - Win by acheiving the most adulting points by the end of the game.
  - Achieve adulting points by playing cards for points.
  - Obtain cards by bidding on them with your monies.
  - Obtain monies by demonstrating your adultness.

## Game Setup
  - Shuffle the deck and put the suit sides face up.
  - Put the money tokens in the middle of the table.
  - Determine who will be the first dealer: oldest or who has played the most.

## Game Overview
todo

## Round Overview

  - At the start of a round the dealer may play a card from their hand. Skip this step on the first round of the game. (See [Scoring Phase](#scoring-phase"))

  - After playing a card, the dealer then takes a card from the top of the deck and looks at the rules text side.

  - The dealer will then lead the group through the the work phase when players will earn monies through displays of adultness. (See [Work Phase](#work-phase))

  - After monies have been distributed the dealer will then lead the group through the sorting phase when it will be determined which players in the group have a right to bid on the round's card. (See [Sorting Phase](#sorting-phase))

  - The players who made it through the sorting phase then make a blind bid for the round's card with their monies. The player with the largest bid takes the card into their hand. (See [Bidding Phase](#bidding-phase))

  - Finally, the deck passes to the left and a new round begins with the new dealer.

## Round Details

### <a name="scoring-phase">Scoring Phase</a>

  At the begining of a round, before a card is drawn from the deck, players have the option to score a card from their hand. Cards come in one of four suits: hearts, clubs, diamonds, and spades. When scoring a card from your hand you will place it down onto the table into one of three columns: hearts, clubs, and diamonds. Spades are wild and can be placed into any column. These three columns comprise your 'mantle'. Each player has their own mantle.

  Each card on your mantle contributes to your adulting score. A column of cards is worth points equal to the number of cards in it squared. Each completed row you have (set of heart, club, and diamond) is worth an aditional seven points.

  Some cards will have two suits on their back. These can be played into either column. Once that card has been placed into a column, though, it cannot be moved into another column.

  Instead of a second suit some cards might instead have some game text. The game text will describe what effect the card can have. Unless the card says otherwise, it may be played for its effect during the scoring phase. Do do so you place the card down into the discard pile and follow its instructions.

  During the scoring phase you may only play up to one card. That means that you can only either play a card onto your mantle for points, or discard a card for its effect, or neither.

### <a name="work-phase">Work Phase</a>

The work phase is when players will have the chance to earn monies. The dealer will read the text on the left hand side of the card and lead the group through the activity it describes. The activity will be one of a few different types:
  - [Category](#card-job-type-category): Players will take turns naming examples of a given category. Players are eliminated when they cannot name an example. Players earn money according to how long they last in the round.
  - [Order](#card-job-type-order): Players will earn money based on how they rank relative to the other players in some given measurment of adultness.
  - [Payout](#card-job-type-payout): Players will receive money based on a quantitative measurment of an aspect of their adultness
  - [Challenge](#card-job-type-challenge): Players will compete in a given performance which will be ranked by the dealer. 


### <a name="sorting-phase">Sorting Phase</a>

  After players have received their monies from the work phase the sorting phase begins. The dealer will read the question on the right half of the card. This should be a qualitative question with two possible answers. If there is any ambiguity about which answer is more adult the dealer desides. Then, starting with the player to the dealer's left, each player gives their answer. If the player has opted to give the adult answer the rest of the group gives a simple up or down vote to let that answer stand. The players who can give the adult answer earn the right to go on to the bidding phase. If no players have qualified for the bidding phase skip it, discard the round's card, and take a moment to meditate on the group's collective shame.

### <a name="bidding-phase">Bidding Phase</a>

  After the players have been sorted between the honest adults and lying children, the adults in the room can bid for the round's card. Each adult secretly puts some of their monies into their closed fist and puts their fist out in front of them to indicate that they are ready. When all bidders are ready they reveal their bids. The player with the highest bid puts their bid back into the bank and puts the round's card into their hand. If there is a tie for the top bid then it is the player to the dealer's left that receives the card, the other players who tied receive monies from the bank equal to their bid. 

## Ending the Game

  When the third spade has been played onto the table for points the game ends. Players count their adulting score and gloat, like mature adults.

## Card Details

## Job types

### <a name="card-job-type-category">Category</a>
  - The dealer reads the category and the player to the dealer's left begins by naming an example of that category.
  - The next player in line names another example that has not already been named. 
  - When a player is eliminated she collects one money for each player who has been eliminated already (including herself, so the first player eliminated will get one money, the second gets two, etc.). 
  - A player is eliminated when she names an example that has already been named, names something that does not qualify, or cannot think of anything to name. 
  - The dealer does not participate, but instead arbitrates. They can eliminate a player if that player has taken too long, or names something that does not qualify.
  - If a player disputes a ruling of the dealer they can appeal.  
  - The dealer is also in charge of enforcing any hidden rules in the fine print of the card (they only read the bolded text of the card).
  - Play continues until all players are eliminated.

### <a name="card-job-type-rank">Rank</a>:
  - A rank card will distribute monies according to how you stack up relative to the other players in the game based on a given measurment.
  - Players go around starting to the left of the dealer and give their quantity.
  - If you dispute the answer that a player gives you can sue them.
  - A sucessful suit will disqualify the defendant from the round.
  - When the order has been settled each player receives money according to their rank: the first player gets one money for each player in the game, the next player gets one less than the first, etc.
  - The dealer might not participate in this either (must enforce hidden rules?)

    - Payout:
      - A payout card distributes monies to players according to some quantitative measurment of their adultness.

    - Challenge:
      - A challenge card will pit the players in some sort of performative competition.
      - The dealer judges and ranks their performance.
      - Players receive monies in accordance with their ranking.


# Legal System

  What it means to be an adult is inherintly subjective. Disagreements will inevitably arise between competing definitions. But games are an artifical system of objectivity which organize and overlay subjective truths. So this game must provide a means of so containing its subjective contents. To that end, we will take a queue from real life and objectify subjectivity by implementing a beurocratic and depressing legal code.

### Appeals

  During the work phase a player may object to a ruling that the dealer makes. If the dealer sustains their ruling then the player may appeal that ruling before a jury of their peers.
  - If a player decides to pursue the appeal then they must set aside one money for each other player in the game (including the dealer). A player cannot appeal unless they can front the legal fees.
  - Then the appealer has up to thirty seconds to present their case.
  - The dealer then has up to thirty seconds to retort.
  - After oral arguments the rest of the players give an up or down vote to overturn the ruling. If the appeal is voted down or if there is a tie vote then the ruling is upheld.
  - If the ruling is upheld then the appealer pays each other player, including the dealer, one money from their collateral.
  - If the appeal is successful then the ruling is overturned. The appealer keeps their collatoral and each player (including the appealer but excluding the dealer take one coin from the bank).
  
### Lawsuit
  
  If you believe a player has perjured themselves or committed libel against you, you may attempt to sue them.
  - To begin a suit you state your case to the dealer and propose a price. You must have at least as much money as the price you propose. 
  - The dealer then decides whether to allow or dismiss the case.
  - If the case is dismissed then play continues.
  - If the case is allowed then the dealer puts a price on the suit. The proposed price is the maximum it can be set to.
  - The defendant then decides whether to fight the suit or concede.
  - If the defendant concedes then they pay the prosecutor one money and the case is closed.
  - But if the defendant decides to fight then the prosecutor has thirty seconds to present their case.
  - The defendant then has thirty seconds to retort.
  - The other players then give an up or down vote to charge the defendant.
  - If the defendant is found guilty then they pay the prosecutor the price of the suit. If they do not have enough money to pay then they just pay as much as they have--they do not go into debt and the bank does not cover defaults.
  - If the prosecution was voted unsuccessful then the prosecutor pays the defendant the price of the suit.
  - After payments are settled play continues.

### Fines

  If a player is caught stealing from the bank, either by taking too many monies while being payed from the bank or by paying too few monies while paying the bank, another player may call it out.

  The theif must then pay back double the gains to the bank:
    - If a player takes three monies but they were only supposed to receive one then they pay four.
    - If a player pays only one money but was supposed to pay two then they would pay an additional two.

  The player who called out the theif takes one money from the bank.

### Corruption

  If you feel that the dealer in the round has exhibited gross corruption then you may move to impeach the dealer.
  - If you do present your case for thirty seconds.
  - The dealer then has thirty seconds to retort.
  - The rest of the players then give an up or down vote to impeach. If impeached the round immediately ends. The card is given to the player who impeached and the next round begins.
  - If the movement to impeach was voted down (or tied) then the player who moved to impeach is automatically eliminated from the work phase and disqualified from the sorting phase of the round.
